Burp Suite Intruder
Since the default credentials
didn’t seem to work
and blank passwords aren’t allowed,
let’s try to automate some basic
username and password combinations
with Burp Suite’s Intruder tool.
Let’s send a few manual login
attempts from our browser.
Now let’s switch back to Burp Suite
and look at the request and
corresponding response for a login.
Based on the server response,
this test may not be
straightforward as it seems
since we have several
factors to contend with.
As we can see from the requests,
the login form includes a token to prevent
brute forcing and other attacks.
In addition, we can see that the form sets a
set_session parameter which
is unique for each request.
If we change the set_session parameter
and it doesn’t match the value
of the phpMyAdmin cookie,
the site will return an error.
If we look at the HTML source
for the login form,
we will find the new set_session and
token values are included in the response.
In order to overcome
this protective measure,
and ensure the values match,
we can automate the request with Intruder.
However, we must first submit a login
request for Intruder to analyze.
We can do this by right-clicking
on the POST request
to “index.php” and then
selecting Send to Intruder.
Now, when we click on the Intruder tab,
we discover that it contains
multiple request sub-tabs.
Under these, we will find
four additional sub-tabs:
Target, Positions, Payloads, and Options.
Let’s inspect these beginning with Target.
The information on this tab is
prepopulated based on the request
so we will leave the values as-is.
Next, let’s review the
contents of the Positions tab.
We use this tab to mark which
fields we want Burp Suite to inject
payloads into when an attack is run.
Burp Suite will automatically
mark cookie values and
POST body values as payload positions
using a section sign as a delimiter.
However, we do not want to
use all these default positions
so we will remove them
with the Clear button.
We will leave pma_username set to “root”
since this is our target user account.
There are four other values we will
modify in order to submit login attempts.
We will insert the actual attempted
password into pma_password
by selecting the value and clicking Add.
The phpMyAdmin cookie value
and set_session post body value
change on each request,
so we need to add them
as payload positions as well.
Finally, the token value
also changes on each request
to prevent bruteforcing
so we will need to select its
value and click Add as well.
We’ll set the Attack type to “Pitchfork”,
allowing us to set a unique
payload list for each position.
This is necessary to
account for the differences
in the payload values we want to send.
The pitchfork attack will place
the first value from each list
into their respective positions
and then send the request.
The next request will use the second
value from each list, and so on.
Configuring a “Pitchfork” attack with
the payloads we need here
can be a bit confusing.
We need to configure some of
our payloads on the Options tab
before we can use them so we will be
skipping over the Payloads tab for now.
We need something that can
extract values from a response
and inject them into the next request.
Burp Suite includes a
“Recursive grep” payload
that searches a response with grep
for a predefined value and makes the
results available for the next request.
This is exactly what we need to set
the phpMyAdmin cookie value,
the set_session post body value,
and the token field.
Let’s click on Add to start configuring
our first Recursive Grep payload.
This opens a new window
with a HTTP response
that we can use to define the location
of the item we want extracted.
We do not want to use the “Set-Cookie”
headers to extract the session value
because the server sets multiple
instances of the phpMyAdmin cookie
and Burp will always use
the first instance it finds.
We need to scroll down in
the HTTP response window
to the set_session hidden
input field within the login form.
We will click and select the
value of the input field.
When we do this, Burp automatically
sets the “Start after expression”
and “End at delimiter” values
defining the delimiters
for the grep extract.
We’ll click Ok to save the extract,
and then define another
extract by clicking Add.
This time we need to select the
contents of the token field.
Again, we’ll click Ok to
save the second extract.
Now that we have our
“Recursive Grep” payloads defined,
we need to set our payloads
by clicking the Payloads tab.
We will be setting four payloads in total.
There is a Payload set value
for each position we marked
and they match the positions sequentially.
In other words, set one is
for the session cookie,
set two is for the session field,
set three is the password field,
and set four is for the token field.
Payload set one is the
phpMyAdmin sesson cookie value.
We need to select
“Recursive Grep” for the type,
and then click on our first grep
extract as our Payload Option.
We will also set a value for the initial payload.
Payload set two is the set_session value.
It needs to match the value
of the phpMyAdmin cookie,
so we will use the same
settings as payload set one.
Payload set three is the password value.
We will configure it to use
the “Simple list” payload type.
As its name indicates,
this payload type uses
a simple list of strings.
We can add values to the list
by manually entering
passwords in the text box
and clicking Add.
We will repeat this to enter
a few common passwords.
Finally, payload set four
is the token value.
We will use the “Recursive grep”
payload type again,
and our second grep extract
as our Payload Option.
As with payload positions one and two,
we will again provide an initial value.
The token value can often
contain special characters
so we need to de-select the
option to URL encode them.
We’ve performed a number of setup steps
so let’s review what we’ve
done before starting the attack.
We should have four positions
marked on the Positions tab.
These are the values for
the phpMyAdmin cookie
and the POST body values
for the set_session,
pma_password, and token parameters.
Our payloads for set one and two
are “Recursive grep” with
the session extract payload.
Our payload for set three
is a “Simple list” with our weak passwords.
Finally, our payload for set four
is again “Reverse grep” but
with the token extract payload.
Now that we have verified our settings,
we’ll click the Start attack button.
The demo version of intruder will
work fine for this demonstration,
so we’ll click Ok to start the attack
and send requests with
each position we marked
replaced with the
respective payload values.
Burp Suite will open a
new window with the results:
If everything is configured correctly,
one request will trigger a 302 response,
which stands out from
the other 200 responses.
This entry also contains
a “pmaAuth-1” cookie,
which seems to indicate
a successful login.
According to the output,
Burp Suite was able to log in as
root with a password of “root”.
We can verify this
manually in our browser:
This example might appear
somewhat unusual,
but weak or predictable passwords
are still far too common
and this process will certainly work with
more complex real-world examples.
In phpMyAdmin, the available databases
are listed on the left hand side,
one of which is webappdb.
This database belongs to the
vulnerable web application that
we will be abusing in this module.
This is a basic website
that includes a menu,
feedback section,
and admin area
We will return to this application soon
but first, let’s return to phpMyAdmin.
We can use our access to phpMyAdmin
to execute arbitrary SQL queries
directly against the database.
If we click on SQL, we can
write our own SQL queries.
We will cover SQL more
in-depth later in this module
but for now,
we will retrieve all the data,
in the users table in
the webappdb database.
After clicking Go,
we get the results of our query,
indicating plaintext passwords.
Not only can we query the
database and view table contents
but we can also insert
data into the database.
This query will add a new user named “backdoor”
with a password of “backdoor”.
Next, we’ll click Go to run the query.
The page updates and
shows “1 row inserted”.
We can verify the user was added by
re-running our original query.
With our user in the webappdb database,
we should be able to use our newly-created
backdoor account to log in.
Excellent, the user we inserted
into the database is able to log in.
We will analyze this web
application in much greater depth
later in this module.
This is just a brief example of what we
can do with access to PhpMyAdmin
and SQL queries.
We will take this farther later in this
module when we demonstrate SQL injection
and leverage SQL query access
into a shell on the server.